The Congress and BJP candidates from the Rehli assembly seat in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district on Sunday accused each other of plotting to kill one another. The rival nominees targeted each other after the supporters of the Congress candidate, Jyoti Patel, allegedly had a tiff with some locals at Gunjora trisection on Saturday. A few vehicles of Patel were then damaged, she claimed. A purported video of the incident surfaced on social media showing some people, including women, breaking window panes of some vehicles.

After the incident, Patel said BJP candidate from Rehli, Gopal Bhargava, an eight-time MLA from this seat, was behind the attack on her vehicles and it was an attempt to kill her. On the other hand, Bhargava claimed that the police found arms and ammunition in Patel’s vehicles and they had been brought to take his life. Bhargava said Patel’s allegations against him reflect her frustration, claiming that she would lose her deposit in the election. Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Lokesh Kumar said Patel has submitted an application levelling allegations against Bhargava.

In a speech on India’s independence day in August 2023, his tenth as prime minister, Narendra Modi declared the country to be at a turning point. A new world order, he told the crowds, was emerging in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic. India was poised to shape this new order, thanks to its “trinity” of demography, democracy and diversity. “The world can see a spark for itself in this beam of light that is emanating from India,” he said.

India may indeed be at a turning-point with a general election due in 2024—just not quite in the way that Mr Modi suggests. Since he took office, India has grown from the world’s tenth-largest economy to its fifth (it could be third by 2027). It has become a key partner in America’s pushback against China. But there have also been persistent allegations from critics at home and abroad that Mr Modi has repressed political dissent and marginalised Indian Muslims. The coming year could be critical for the future of India’s democracy—and its relations with the West